None

Erysipelas usually occurs rather abruptly. When the
preceding infection was strep throat, the rash begins on
the face. Occasionally, when the preceding infection was
of a wound from an injury or operation, the rash will
appear on an arm or leg.
Classically, the usual presentation is a bright-red,
butterfly-shaped rash appearing across the bridge of the
nose and the cheeks. It is hot to the touch, painful, shiny,
and swollen, with clearly defined margins. The edges of
the rash are a raised ridge, hard to the touch. There may
be fluid-filled bumps scattered along the area. The rash
spreads rapidly. Some patients have swelling of the eye-
lids, sometimes so severe that their eyes swell shut. The
patient may have fever, chills, loss of energy, nausea
and vomiting, and swollen, tender lymph nodes. In
severe cases, walled-off areas of pus (abscesses) may
develop beneath the skin. If left untreated, the strepto-
coccal bacteria may begin circulating in the bloodstream
(a condition called bacteremia). A patient may then
develop an overwhelming, systemic infection called sep-
sis, with a high risk of death.