None

Because oral herpes is so common, it is diagnosed
primarily by symptoms. It can be diagnosed and treated
by the family doctor, dermatologists (doctors who spe-
cialize in skin diseases) and infectious disease special-
ists. Laboratory tests may be performed to look for the
virus. Because healing sores do not shed much virus, a
sample from an open sore would be taken for viral cul-
ture. A sterile cotton swab would be wiped over open
sores and the sample used to infect human cells in cul-
ture. Cells that are killed by the herpes virus have a cer-
tain appearance under microscopic examination. The
results of this test are available within two to 10 days.
Oral herpes may resemble a bacterial infection called
impetigo. This skin infection is most commonly seen in
children and causes herpes-like blisters around the mouth
and nose. Also, because oral herpes can occur inside the
mouth, the blisters could be mistaken for common canker
sores. Therefore, the doctor would need to determine
whether the blisters are oral herpes, canker sores, or
impetigo. The diagnosis and treatment of herpes infec-
tions should be covered by most insurance providers.