The Gale Encyclopedia of Medicine 2 is a medical ref-
erence product designed to inform and educate readers
about a wide variety of disorders, conditions, treatments,
and diagnostic tests. The Gale Group believes the product
to be comprehensive, but not necessarily definitive. It is
intended to supplement, not replace, consultation with a
physician or other healthcare practitioner. While the Gale
Group has made substantial efforts to provide information
that is accurate, comprehensive, and up-to-date, the Gale
Group makes no representations or warranties of any
kind, including without limitation, warranties of mer-
chantability or fitness for a particular purpose, nor does it
guarantee the accuracy, comprehensiveness, or timeliness
of the information contained in this product. Readers
should be aware that the universe of medical knowledge
is constantly growing and changing, and that differences
of medical opinion exist among authorities. Readers are
also advised to seek professional diagnosis and treatment
for any medical condition, and to discuss information
obtained from this book with their health care provider.
GALE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF MEDICINE 2

None