Hemodialysis is the most frequently prescribed type
of dialysis treatment in the United States. Most
hemodialysis patients require treatment three times a
week, for an average of three to four hours per dialysis
“run” depending on the type of dialyzer used and their
current physical condition. The treatment involves circu-
lating the patient’s blood outside of the body through an
extracorporeal circuit (ECC), or dialysis circuit. The
dialysis circuit consists of plastic blood tubing, a two-
compartment filter known as a dialyzer, or artificial kid-
ney, and a dialysis machine that monitors and maintains
blood flow and administers dialysate, a chemical bath
used to draw waste products out of the blood. The
patient’s blood leaves and enters the body through two
needles inserted into the patient’s vein, called an access
site, and is pushed through the blood compartment of the
dialyzer. Once inside of the dialyzer, excess fluids and
toxins are pulled out of the bloodstream and into the
dialysate compartment, where they are carried out of the
body. At the same time, electrolytes and other chemicals
in the dialysate solution move from the dialysate into the
bloodstream. The purified, chemically-balanced blood is
then returned to the body.

None