None

Tympanoplasty is performed to reconstruct the
eardrum after partial or total conductive hearing loss,
usually caused by chronic middle ear infections, or per-
forations that do not heal. This is usually a same day
surgery, performed under either local or general anesthe-
sia. After making an incision in the ear to view the perfo-
ration, the ear drum is elevated away from the ear canal
and lifted forward. If the bones of hearing (ossicular
chain) are functioning, tissue is taken from the ear and
grafted to the eardrum to close the perforation. A thin
sheet of silastic and Gelfoam hold the graft in place. The
ear is stitched together, and a sterile patch is placed on
the outside of the ear canal. Tympanoplasty is successful
in over 90% of all cases. The need for ossicular recon-
struction (reconstruction of tiny bones of the middle ear)
is sometimes known before surgery and and even when
identified during surgery, can usually be done while
reconstructing the eardrum. If the gap between the anvil
bone and the stapes is small, a small piece of bone or car-
tilage from the patient can be inserted; if is is large, the
incus bone is removed, modelled into a prosthesis, and
reinserted between the stapes and the malleus. Recon-
struction could also be achieved by inserting a strut made
from artificial bone. For tympanoplasty with ossicular
reconstruction, the patient usually stays in the hospital
overnight. The recovery period is about four weeks.