None

The objective of treatment is to replace the head of the
femur into the acetabulum and, by applying constant pres-
sure, to enlarge and deepen the socket. In the past, stabi-
lization was achieved by placing rolled cotton diapers or a
pillow between the thighs, thereby keeping the knees in a
frog like position. More recently, the Pavlik harness and
von Rosen splint are commonly used in infants up to the
age of six months. A stiff shell cast may be used, which
achieves the same purpose, spreading the legs apart and
forcing the head of the femur into the acetabulum. In some
cases, in older children between six to 18 months, surgery
may be necessary to reposition the joint. Also at this age,
the use of closed manipulation may be applied successful-
ly, by moving the leg around manually to replace joint.
Operations are not only performed to reduce the disloca-
tion of the hip, but also to repair a defect in the acetabu-
lum. A cast is applied after the operation to hold the head
of the femur in the correct position. The use of a home
traction program is now more common. However, after
the age of eight years, surgical procedures are primarily
done for pain reduction measures only. Total hip surgeries
may be inevitable later in adulthood.