excessive secretions, stool, or blood that obstruct the
viewing, they will be suctioned out through the scope.
The doctor may press on the abdomen or ask the patient
to change his/her position in order to advance the scope
through the colon.
The entire length of the large intestine can be exam-
ined in this manner. If suspicious growths are observed,
tiny biopsy forceps or brushes can be inserted through
the colon and tissue samples can be obtained. Small
polyps can also be removed through the colonoscope.
After the procedure, the colonoscope is slowly with-
drawn and the instilled air is allowed to escape. The anal
area is then cleansed with tissues.
The procedure may take anywhere from 30 minutes
to two hours depending on how easy it is to advance the
scope through the colon. Colonoscopy can be a long and
uncomfortable procedure, and the bowel cleaning prepa-
ration may be tiring and can produce diarrhea and
cramping. During the colonoscopy, the sedative and the
pain medications will keep the patient very drowsy and
relaxed. Most patients complain of minor discomfort and
pressure from the colonoscope moving inside. However,
the procedure is not painful.

None