Description
Immunodeficiency means that the immune system is
deficient in one or more of its components and is unable
to respond effectively. Common variable immunodefi-
ciency is the most common of the immunodeficiency dis-
orders. Patients with this disease have frequent infec-
tions, especially those caused by the same microorgan-
ism. Recurring infections are an indication that the
immune system is not responding normally and develop-
ing immunity to reinfection. Patients with common vari-
able immunodeficiency have a normal number of B cells,
the lymphocytes that make antibodies. In approximately
one-third of these patients, the number of B cells in the
blood that have IgG antibodies on their surface is lower
than normal, but there are normal numbers of B cells in
their bone marrow. B cells with IgG antibodies on their
surface are capable of responding to microorganisms.
The lack of IgG on the surface of the B cells means that
they are not prepared to fight infection. The T-cell lym-
phocytes, those cells responsible for cellular immunity,
are usually normal, although some cell signal compo-
nents may be lacking.

None